# About WikDict

## What is WikDict?

WikDict aims to provide free bilingual dictionary data for all use cases. You are currently looking at the WikDict web interface, which provides a simple way to look for translations in the WikDict data. One very important aspect of WikDict is that all data is available under a free license, which is not the case for most other dictionaries.

=> https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ Creative Commons BY-SA

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## The WikDict Web Interface

### How do I search WikDict?

* Search for single words or common phrases. WikDict can do intelligent lookup in a dictionary, but it can't translate scentences or arbitrary word combinations.
* Don't worry about writing in upper/lower case. Both "haus" and "Haus" will match the dictionary entry "Haus".
* Skip accents and other diacritics if you want to. Typing "Tur" will find "Tür".

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## The WikDict data

### Which data is available and where does if come from?

All data is extracted from Wiktionary by the DBnary project. So for data to be available, it has to be in one the the Wiktionaries support by DBnary. On top of the extraction work done by DBnary, WikDict

* parses HTML and Wiki formatting from the results to provide proper human-readable output
* reduces the differences in data structure between different language Wiktionaries
* combines translations from diffrenent language Wiktionaries in a smart way to increase the number of translations
* assigns importance scores to words and translations for better sorting, filtering and suggestions
* merges translations to give more concise output
* converts the data into other formats
* provides a web interface

=> http://www.wiktionary.org Wiktionary 
=> http://kaiko.getalp.org/about-dbnary/ DBnary

The source code for all this can be found in the repositories for the dictionary generation[1] and the web interface[2]. Both are licensed under the MIT license[3].

=> https://github.com/karlb/wikdict-gen 1: https://github.com/karlb/wikdict-gen
=> https://github.com/karlb/wikdict-web 2: https://github.com/karlb/wikdict-web
=> https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/ 3: https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/

### Contributing

The easiest way for non-programmers to contribute is to provide feedback and bug reports. This can be done by mail or by creating GitHub issues. Improving the content of the Wiktionary of your choice (especially the translations section) will also help improving the data quality in the long run.

=> mailto:karl@karl.berlin karl@karl.berlin
=> https://github.com/karlb/wikdict-web/issues GitHub issue tracker

If you are willing to write code or want to contribute in a different way, please get in contact to avoid duplicate work and get you started in the right direction.
